### TIPS

If any corner of the element is in the viewable area, or if any corner of the viewable area is in the bounding box of the element, then you need to draw that element.

Batch canvas calls together. For example, draw a polyline instead of multiple separate lines.
Avoid unnecessary canvas state changes.
Render screen differences only, not the whole new state.
Avoid the shadowBlur property whenever possible.
Avoid text rendering whenever possible.
Try different ways to clear the canvas (clearRect() vs. fillRect() vs. resizing the canvas).
With animations, use window.requestAnimationFrame() instead of window.setInterval() .
Be careful with heavy physics libraries.



Note: Be aware that clearRect() may cause unintended side effects if you're not using paths properly. Make sure to call beginPath() before starting to draw new items after calling clearRect().


Have a min and max level of zoom
Support zoom and navigation at the same time
 - Navigation without zoom might lend itself to rendering only new data, while tranform-translate existing pixels
Zoom towards mouse and zoom while retaining the center
Axies are their own elements?

To improve performance with larger datasets, the recommended strategy is to aggregate to reduce the number of data points.

Using an area generator to create a path for 16 thousand points is no challenge for d3 and svgs, it even Animates well.

Brush to select a range of dates and then initiate an animation


Make an svg generated by D3 responsive: There's another way to do this that doesn't require redrawing the graph, and it involves modifying the viewBox and preserveAspectRatio attributes on the <svg> element:


It is also possible to combine svg and canvas to make things more convenient while gaining some performance benefits.

d3 has zoom, brush and many other this available, can I use these features by only working with JS object and then render with canvas?


# Basic manual animation:
There are a lot of clever ways to refactor this and make it easier to use, but this covers a basic approach to getting animation working in canvas. The core ideas are:

a draw function that draws points at their current position
layout functions that set target x and y positions
storing source and target positions and interpolating between them in a d3-timer

# When do I need to use custom elements to use D3 when rendering with canvas?



One strategy for complex animation is to use d3.timer to trigger an animation function for each individual object in your visulalization